# Fourmilab Blockchain Tools

[Fourmilab Blockchain Tools](https://www.fourmilab.ch/webtools/blockchain/)
provide a variety of utilities for users, experimenters, and
researchers working with blockchain-based cryptocurrencies such as
Bitcoin and Ethereum.  These are divided into two main categories.

## Bitcoin and Ethereum Address Tools

These programs assist in generating, analysing, archiving,
protecting, and monitoring addresses on the Bitcoin and
Ethereum blockchains.  They do not require you run a local
node or maintain a copy of the blockchain, and all
security-related functions may be performed on an “air-gapped”
machine with no connection to the Internet or any other computer.

* __Blockchain Address Generator__ creates address and private key
pairs for both the Bitcoin and Ethereum blockchains, supporting a
variety of random generators, address types, and output formats.

* __Multiple Key Manager__ allows you to split the secret keys
associated with addresses into _n_ multiple parts, from which any
_k_≤_n_ can be used to reconstruct the original key, allowing a variety
of secure custodial strategies.

* __Paper Wallet Utilities__ includes a __Paper Wallet Generator__
which transforms a list of addresses and private keys generated by the
Blockchain Address Generator or parts of keys produced by the Multiple
Key Manager into a HTML file which may be printed for off-line “cold
storage”, and a __Cold Storage Wallet Validator__ that provides
independent verification of the correctness of off-line copies of
addresses and keys.

* __Cold Storage Monitor__ connects to free blockchain query services
to allow periodic monitoring of a list of cold storage addresses to
detect unauthorised transactions which may indicate they have been
compromised.

## Bitcoin Blockchain Analysis Tools

This collection of tools allows various kinds of monitoring and
analysis of the Bitcoin blockchain.  They do not support Ethereum.
These programs are intended for advanced, technically-oriented users
who run their own full Bitcoin Core node on a local computer.  Note
that anybody can run a Bitcoin node as long as they have a computer
with the modest CPU and memory capacity required, plus the very large
(and inexorably growing) file storage capacity to archive the entire
Bitcoin blockchain. You can run a Bitcoin node without being a
“miner”, nor need you expose your computer to external accesses from
other nodes unless you so wish.

These tools are all read-only monitoring and analysis utilities.
They do not generate transactions of any kind, nor do they require
unlocked access to the node owner's wallet.

* __Address Watch__ monitors the Bitcoin blockchain and reports any
transactions which reference addresses on a “watch list”, either
deposits to the address or spending of funds from it.  The program may
also be used to watch activity on the blockchain, reporting statistics
on blocks as they are mined and published.

* __Confirmation Watch__ examines blocks as they are mined and reports
confirmations for a transaction as they arrive.

* __Transaction Fee Watch__ analyses the transaction fees paid to
include transactions in blocks and the reward to miners and produces
real-time statistics and log files which may be used to analyse
transaction fees over time.

## Details

You can download the complete source code distribution, including
ready-to-run versions of all of the programs, from the
[Fourmilab Blockchain Tools](https://www.fourmilab.ch/webtools/blockchain/)
home page.

All of this software is licensed under the Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike license.  Please see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) in
this repository for details.

Please see the
[Fourmilab Blockchain Tools User Guide](doc/blockchain_tools_user_guide.pdf)
for details or read the
[complete source code](doc/blockchain_tools.pdf) written using the
Literate Programming methodology.
